In this video you're going to learn how to accurately track the impact of individual marketing campaigns
using campaign tagging.
Then why would we want to use this.
Well we've seen in our source media report that we can look at the source and the medium of our traffic
for example that we have traffic from and coming from Google and then it came organically via these
search results.
However it's much harder to see if an individual email or an individual tweet or Facebook posts really
had any impact.
And that is what campaign tagging allows us to do and to really create and capture that data and put
it into Google Analytics we need to use a tool called your URL builder so you can just type this into
google to find it.
And this is a free to from Google.
And essentially it helps us to put additional information on to the links that we might be sharing on
Facebook or in an email or on Twitter it contains this and additional information.
Also known as UTM tags which we can see here where we actually define the source and the medium on their
campaign name.
And then in our Google Analytics campaigns report this is where this information is going to show up.
So this is the campaign name.
And then in here we can see the source on the medium.
So to set these parameters and to make sure it shows up in these reports with a campaign name we need
to use this tool called a campaign builder.
So Ive already filled this site Ananda's data.
Walk me through an example of how you might use this.
So lets say my web site has example dot com.
Maybe I want to put a link in my monthly newsletter and see how much traffic and sales that results
in so I can just call the source newsletter medium email and I can just call the campaign named January
sale.
Now you can also put in a campaign term.
If you have particular keywords that you are using and you can type in something like Version 1 version
2 if you are sending two different emails or you were trying to different types of jobs those are required
but they are additional parameters that you can put in.
And once you fill out that information its going to generate a tag or a user like this just to show
you if I remove this that she can see the euro here and then if I out in the campaign name thats going
to show in the world.
So I want to copy this and then I want to paste this into my email that I am sending as or on to post
not sending on Facebook or Twitter etc. if I want to track the individual impacts of that campaign on
my traffic my sign ups my revenue etc..
So now that you know how to track marketing campaigns with the or builder maybe go ahead to the world
builder and just set up a your own with some parameters for a campaign or example campaign that you
might set up an.